The single responsibility principle states there should be
only one reason for a class to change.
To make sense of this definition,
let's look at when the single responsibility is not followed.
Here we have the broadly named MainService class.
One service to rule them all.
The methods within MainService fittingly cover many different domains,
from Order, to Customer, to Account.
Looking at MainService,
it's easy to see how it would have many reasons to change,
as whenever changes are requested to either Order,
Customer, or Account, MainService will likely be impacted in some way.
The large surface area of this class will make it time
consuming to fully cover in tests,
and its vulnerability to change would mean the tests on this
class would likely have a high maintenance cost.
While this alone is a significant impediment to writing tests,
the single responsibility principle has
implications at the method level as well.
Let's explore this by taking a closer look at the createOrder method.
By line count, this method doesn't seem so bad,
but with even some cursory analysis,
we see this method is taking on quite a few responsibilities.
First we have the call to validateItems.
Several checks are probably happening here to ensure that
items being added to the order are valid.
Checks, such as null, empty list, or are the items in stock,
and possibly other checks as well.
If we wanted to test a customer lookup in createOrder,
we must first satisfy all the requirements of validateItems.
The customer lookup is problematic as well,
as we are directly creating a new instance of RestTemplate.
This in effect means a test now depends upon an external service.
So to test this code,
we must find a valid customer example for each test case we would want to write.
Additionally, failure test cases, such as what if the service is not available,
or returns an error or difficult or impossible to reliably reproduce.
This same problem is replicated with the payment call and with the
added burden that to test this part of createOrder,
we must have a valid item list and a valid customer.
Finally, we are directly making an insert into the database.
Now testing createOrder will have at least three external dependencies,
and possibly more as validateItems is likely making an external call as well.
The net effect of this is testing createOrder will be difficult.
As you need to find test data,
the test will be prone to breaking as test data becomes stale
or external sources become unavailable, and finally,
tests will be quite slow from having to make numerous external calls.
Let's look at one possible solution.
As can been seen,
createOrder is doing a lot less now and relying upon
external classes to do much of the work.
With how the code is structured,
it would be a simple task to mock out these calls.
So there would be no need to find valid test data,
and we have full control over how those calls to services and DAOs behave.
Also, tests are running lighting fast, as no network calls are being made.
The interface segregation principle is fairly similar to
the single responsibility principle.
It states,
better to have many client-specific interfaces than a general purpose interface.
While the scope of this principle is more broad than to the
specific interface construct in Java,
we will just look at its implication at this level as
it's most relevant to this course.
Here we have our MainDao interface,
and we see it's providing methods to handle all of our database I/O needs.
The problem is, if we want to mock out this class,
we need to implement all these methods,
which can be time consuming and discourages creating
multiple mocks to handle different scenarios.
By splitting up this interface into many different interfaces, mocking out each interface is easier, as there are fewer methods to implement.